Update IPA Installation Techniques and Tools (by @NVISOSecurity) (#3100)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: techniques/ios/MASTG-TECH-0056.md

platform: ios
---

When you install an application without using Apple's App Store, this is called sideloading. There are various ways of sideloading which are described below. On the iOS device, the actual installation process is then handled by the installd daemon, which will unpack and install the application. To integrate app services or be installed on an iOS device, all applications must be signed with a certificate issued by Apple. This means that the application can be installed only after successful code signature verification, which is explained in @MASTG-TECH-0092.

> On a jailbroken device, you can circumvent this requirement using @MASTG-TOOL-0127, allowing you to install IPA files without obtaining a valid signature.

Reviewer: Add as a dedicated sub section.

This supposedly works via `appinst` however I could not get it to work after installing the .deb

> On a jailbroken device, you can circumvent this requirement using @MASTG-TOOL-0127, allowing you to install IPA files without obtaining a valid signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Disabling Signature Verification (optional)**: On a jailbroken device, you can bypass the signature verification requirement using @MASTG-TOOL-0127, which hooks the appropriate system daemon and disables signature verification for any installations you do with the tools below while it's enabled.
```

Different methods exist for installing an IPA package onto an iOS device, which are described in detail below.

> 

Reviewer: Could you please add `## Filza` and the tool page for it?

Reviewer 2: This was done @cpholguera

On a jailbroken device, you can circumvent this requirement using @MASTG-TOOL-0127, allowing you to install IPA files without obtaining a valid signature.

Different methods exist for installing an IPA package onto an iOS device, which are described in detail below.

## Sideloadly

@MASTG-TOOL-0118 is a GUI tool that can automate all required steps for you. It requires valid Apple developer credentials, as it will obtain a valid signature from Apple servers.

Simply connect your device via USB, enter your Apple ID and drag-and-drop the IPA file onto SideLoadly. Click start to automatically sign and install the given IPA.

<img src="Images/Techniques/0056-Sideloadly.png" width="400px" />

## libimobiledevice

On Linux and also macOS, you can alternatively use @MASTG-TOOL-0126. This allows you to install apps over a USB connection by executing `ideviceinstaller`. The connection is implemented with the USB multiplexing daemon [usbmuxd](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Usbmux "Usbmux"), which provides a TCP tunnel over USB.

Let's install the @MASTG-APP-0028 app with the following command:

```bash
$ ideviceinstaller -i Uncrackable.ipa
...
Install: Complete
```

## Filza

> @MASTG-TOOL-0128 allows you to install an IPA file which is already located on your device. You can use either `scp` or airdrop to copy the IPA file to your device, after which you can simply navigate to the IPA file on your file system and click the `Install` button in the top right corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@MASTG-TOOL-0128 allows you to install an IPA file which is already located on your device. You can use either `scp` or [AirDrop](https://support.apple.com/en-us/119857) to copy the IPA file to your device, after which you can simply navigate to the IPA file on your file system and click the `Install` button in the top right corner.
```

## ipainstaller

> The IPA can also be directly installed on the iOS device via the command line with [ipainstaller](https://github.com/autopear/ipainstaller "IPA Installer"). Naturally, this requires a jailbroken device, as otherwise you cannot SSH into the device. After copying the file over to the device, for example via scp, you can execute ipainstaller with the IPA's filename:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IPA can also be directly installed on the iOS device via the command line with [ipainstaller](https://github.com/autopear/ipainstaller "IPA Installer"). Naturally, this requires a jailbroken device, as otherwise you cannot SSH into the device. After copying the file over to the device, for example via scp or [AirDrop](https://support.apple.com/en-us/119857), you can execute `ipainstaller` with the IPA's filename:
```

```bash

> unzip Name.ipa

Author: The goal is to not have the command prompts anymore so that it's easier to copy/paste: https://mas.owasp.org/contributing/5_Style_Guide/#8-code-and-shell-commands

  </array>

</dict>
</plist>
```

> It is important to note that changing this value will break the original signature of the IPA file so you need to re-sign the IPA, after the update, in order to install it on a device on which the signature validation has not been disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that changing this value will break the original signature, so you must re-sign the IPA (@MASTG-TECH-0092) to install it on a device that does not have signature validation disabled.
```
